Most professionals don't lose
credibility over a lack of intelligence.
It's much more common that they lack
effective communication skills. Because
if your idea seems disorganized or
uncertain or not coherent, people will
doubt what you're saying. And in this
video, I'm going to break down seven
common mistakes that executives make and
how you can fix those things to ensure
that you are communicating effectively.
Where some professionals go wrong when
it comes to communication skills is that
they talk and talk and talk in circles
with the delay of getting to the point.
The best executives get straight to the
point. They lead with the conclusion and
then they add the supplemental
information afterward. So instead of
speaking up in a meeting or talking to a
client by saying, "So I was thinking if
we well based on last year's results and
thinking about how this worked out in
the past and then if we project what
we're going to do in the future, yada
yada yada yada." Before you get to the
point, say, "Here's what we need to do."
And then add in that information
afterward. Start with the headline.
First off, you're going to get straight
to the point. You're going to keep
people's attention, but second, you're
not going to lose credibility or
confidence or that impression that
you're just making things up on the
spot. Instead, start with the most
important information. Add the clarity
afterward. Many intelligent
professionals lose credibility in
meetings or with clients when filler
words are injected. These are the words
such as uh um, so, like, and, but.
Basically, they are any words that we
slip in between sentences rather than
allowing the silence to exist. And if
you're in a highstakes moment, an
important conversation, and a lot of
those filler words start making their
way into your sentence, you have the
risk of losing some credibility with
that person you're communicating to.
This is not an easy thing to fix. It
does take some time, but the first thing
to be aware of is what your filler word
is. Usually the most common are uh and
um especially here in Canada and North
America.
But these are words that once you know
what your filler word is, your most
common word, then you'll start catching
yourself saying it in the future. And
it's all about replacing the habit. So
right now we have a habit of using
filler words between sentences. You want
to replace that habit with the habit of
injecting silence instead. It takes some
time. It takes some awareness. You can
record yourself on video and then watch
it back to know what your filler words
are. But if you can reduce these,
especially in meetings or meetings with
clients, you are going to have a bigger
impact in those conversations. Where
executives and professionals go wrong
when it comes to communicating in
meetings or with their clients is they
add apologies before they get to the
information.
This may be a dumb idea, but
I'm kind of new to this, but this is
just my opinion. By adding those excuses
or those apologies before you say the
information, it waters down what your
message is. Instead, remove that. Here's
what we should do. Here's why this will
make a bigger impact. Whatever your idea
is, you don't have to apologize for it
in advance. And in fact, apologizing is
going to take away from the power of
your message. Be confident. There is a
reason you are in that conversation or
in that room. So if you have something
to say, own it and speak up. Business
professionals lose some of the impact of
their message in meetings when they
generalize the intro. And I've talked on
my YouTube channel before about the fact
that you want to start a speech with
something that's going to capture the
audience's attention. The same thing
could be said for business meetings.
Rather than saying, "So yeah, today I'm
going to talk about such and such and
such." Jump right into a story. Give a
powerful fact. Ask a thought-provoking
question. These strategies are very
unique. Not many people will do them,
but they are going to have a big impact
and be noticed in a positive way in your
business meetings. Leaders who want to
communicate effectively should add
structure to their responses. Not just
in the formal speeches that they give,
but when speaking in a meeting, speaking
to co-workers, speaking to clients.
Structure helps with clarity. Rather
than bouncing back and forth. Hey, I'm
going to go on a few different tangents
here with various ideas, be specific.
Here are three reasons why this will
work for our next initiative. Here are
two main concerns I have with this. And
then jump into it. When we have
structure, first off, it presets what to
expect when the person begins speaking.
And it helps us remember and reinforces
the important points. Leaders who
communicate effectively have structure.
You might be an incredibly knowledgeable
professional, but if you don't have the
communication skills down, it can
actually take away from the impact of
what you say. And for many people, they
get nervous when they're speaking in
front of a room of their peers or their
colleagues or clients. And what happens
is that they speed up the rate in which
they're talking because they don't want
to have any pauses or gaps in between
their sentences.
But that actually takes away a little
bit of credibility from what you're
saying. A big tip, an important tip is
to slow down.
Take a pause between sentences. If you
have a powerful idea, let it sink in.
Allow it to percolate there for a minute
and it will land even harder.
Professionals who want to increase the
way their communication is on an
impactful level try slowing down. The
final way you can communicate
effectively as a professional is to end
your thought with authority. What some
people do after they finish is they say,
"Yeah, so that's about it. That's that's
all I have to say. Those are my
thoughts." and it's almost like
apologizing for the fact that they just
spoke up. Don't do that. Instead, end
your idea with a powerful thought,
something to think about, a recap.
Ideally, if you can bring it full circle
to what you started your idea with, that
is the perfect way to end a thought. But
don't add in those apologetic sentences.
Oh, that that's just my two cents. I
know other people might have other
ideas. It takes away from the message
you just had and it's going to decrease
the amount of value that's received by
the audience. I hope this video for
professionals and executives who want to
elevate their speaking skills was
beneficial to you. If you are somebody
who is a leader, a professional, an
executive, and you want to work on your
public speaking skills and how you
communicate with people on a daily
basis, below is a link to my Stan store.
I offer one-on-one personal coaching.
Whether you're working on a keynote or
you want to dial in your communication
on a daily basis, I can help you do just
that. Thank you so much for watching
this video. If you have not yet
subscribed to my channel, please do so
and check out the video that YouTube is
recommending for